Documentation
CRG Beacon Documentation

The Beacon v2 Production Implementation (B2PI) is a tool that provides a REST API that enables querying of genomic and phenotypic data in compliance with the Beacon v2 standard. It is designed specifically for production environments, offering improved performance, robustness, and full alignment with the Beacon v2 specification.
This documentation walks through B2PI in detail, including its data ingestion workflow, deployment, configuration, and querying capabilities. The process involves transforming raw data into a Beacon v2-compliant JSON format, uploading it to the API, and querying the data through a user-friendly interface.

The process relies on the following four processes:

Beacon RI Tools v2. This tool enables the conversion of .csv, .vcf, and phenopacket (.pxf) files into .json files in a Beacon Friendly Format (BFF). It includes all the features required to generate data compatible with the Beacon v2 PI API.
Beacon PI API. The API connects to a MongoDB database that stores the .json files, allowing one to query the data following the Beacon v2 standards. Beacon v2 PI is developed for production environments and recommended for improved performance and user experience.
Beacon Verifier v2. A tool that checks that the data in the API is compliant with Beacon v2 and provides a verification report. Beacon Verifier is compatible with any Beacon instance, independent of the chosen implementation approach.
Beacon Template User Interface. The user-friendly interface for querying the API without needing to worry about the underlying standards. It supports intuitive queries and enables authentication through LifeScience or Keycloak. Template UI is easy to customize in order to fit the needs of each individual Beacon.
In addition to the Production Implementation, Beacon Reference Implementation (B2RI) is also available and compatible with the RI Tools v2. B2RI is provided as an example implementation intended for understanding, experimentation, and early prototyping. It is not designed for production environments and it is not actively maintained. For the most up-to-date implementation, the use of the Production Implementation is advised instead.


Regarding security, the API always validates authentication through the chosen identity provider, following the globally accepted OIDC and Oauth protocols.

As stated before, Beacon v2 PI API is a beacon instance for production environments. The steps that this production instance follows are the next ones shown in the next flowchart:

The process to deploy and inject data is the same than in Beacon v2 RI API (data comes from Beacon RI Tools v2) but this instance is optimized and tested, having the next upgrades from Beacon v2 RI API:

Handlers of the endpoints are classes, not functions.
Unit testing has been developed for the application, starting with 108 unit tests that cover 4000 lines of code approximately (100%).
Concurrency testing has been applied for this new beacon instance, showing results of responses for more than 3 million genomic variants splitted in different datasets in less than 100 millisecs, for a total of 1000 requests made by 10 users per second at the same time.
Linking ids to a dataset in a yaml file is not needed anymore.
A couple more indexes for mongoDB have been applied, that, in addition to the restructuration of the code, have improved the quickness of the responses.
Authentication/Authorization is now applied as a decorator, not as a different container.
LOGS now show more relevant information about the different processes (from request to response) including transaction id, the time of execution of each function and the initial call and the return call.
Exceptions now are raised from the lower layer to the top layer, with information and status for the origin of the exception.
Architecture of the code is not dependent on a particular database, meaning that different types of databases (and more than one) can be potentially applied to this instance (although now only MongoDB is the one developed).
Parameters are sanitized.
Users can manage what entry types want their beacon to show by editing a manage conf file inside source (Endpoint Mapper).

Collaborators
Europe
CaixaBank
EGA
CRG
ELIXIR
EMBL-EBI
© Copyright 2025, CRG Beacon Documentation Contributors