Documentation Beacon Template UI UI Deployment
Beacon Template UI
UI Deployment
1. Prerequisites
Docker
Make sure Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your machine.
You can verify this by opening up the terminal on your computer and input the following:
docker --version
docker compose version
You should expect both commands printing a version, for example:
Docker version 27.3.1, build ce12230
Docker Compose version v2.29.7-desktop.1
Code Editor
You will need a code editor (e.g. Visual Studio Code) to:
Edit the config.json
Create and edit your .env file (if login is enabled)

2. Clone the repository
Open your terminal and navigate to the folder where you want to store the project (for example, your Desktop):

git clone https://github.com/EGA-archive/beacon-template-ui.git

Once the cloning process finishes, you can open the app inside your code editor, and then go inside the project directory:

cd beacon-template-ui
This means you’re in the correct directory and ready to start editing the configuration.

3. Edit and Customize the Beacon Template UI
There is an extended section that you will find by navigating to the Configuration File paragraph.
Before proceeding make sure that the following files are edited:
config.json (location: client/src/config/config.json)
client/public/assets/logos is populated with the correct .svg(s)
Remember that you can also use relative URLs if your images are hosted externally.
Only if the login is enabled:
.env file is added in client folder with the credentials

4. Start the application with Docker
In your terminal run:
docker compose up -d --build
Docker will automatically build the image and start the UI container.

5. Verify the Container
To confirm the container is running:
docker ps
Expected output:
CONTAINER ID IMAGE COMMAND STATUS PORTS 123abc456def beacon-template-ui-client:latest "node /opt/yarn..." Up 10 seconds 0.0.0.0:3025->3000/tcp
If it’s visible, the UI is running locally at: http://localhost:3000

6. Stop or Restart the Application
To stop the container:
docker compose down
To rebuild and restart after modifying files:
docker compose up -d --build


Updating to a new Beacon Template UI Version
The configuration file (client/src/config/config.json) is designed to be reusable across Beacon Template UI releases.
When a new version is published, you do not need to recreate your configuration from scratch.
To update to a newer version:
Keep your existing configuration files
client/src/config/config.json
client/.env (if login is enabled)
Update the Beacon Template UI code
Either pull the latest changes from the repository (for example with git fetch/ git pull), or clone the new version and copy your existing config.json and .env into it.
Rebuild and restart the UI
Run:
docker compose down
docker compose up -d --build
This step is required every time the Beacon Template UI code changes, because the Docker image must be rebuilt to include the updated UI.
As long as your existing config.json matches the schema expected by the new release, it can be reused without modification. If new fields are introduced in future versions, you can compare your configuration with config.example.json and extend it as needed.