Documentation Beacon Verifier Using the UI
Beacon Verifier
Using the UI - Tutorial for using verifier in your browser
Please, open the verifier UI in your browser going to http://localhost:80 (dev environment deployment) or http://localhost:3015 (production environment deployment).
The Verifier has four steps that need to be followed in order to configurate how you want to verify your beacon.
Step 1. Settings

Introduce your URL in the text area after Beacon URL. The URL needs to be the one pointing to the root URL that preceeds the endpoint names (/datasets, /individuals, etc...) without trailing slash. For example, if your beacon has the url www.example.com/api/datasets, the URL you need to insert is www.example.com/api.
Set the Response Type (multiple choices allowed).
Choose between HIT (only datasets with positive results), MISS (only datasets with negative results), ALL (all datasets, either with positive or negative results) or/and NONE (results not splitted per dataset).
Set the Granularity (multiple choices allowed). Choose what granularity do you want to verify for your beacon, all the detailed response (records), just the number of results obtained (count) and/or the response where a true/false is returned for a query (boolean).
Set the TestMode on or off. This is for activating your beacon in TestMode (if you have it implemented), so only the datasets meant for this mode will be returned in response.

If you choose NONE and record, the verification won't be able to be performed, as they can't be selected together. If you choose NONE, record and others, then, the verification will be performed but skipping the combination of NONE + record.

Step 2. Endpoints

A bunch of endpoints will load coming from the /map endpoint of your beacon. You can choose the ones you want to verify by checking them out or not.
The /info endpoint is recommended to show the confirmation of the beacon you are verifying.

Step 3. Datasets

If there are any datasets in your beacon, the list will be showing here. You can choose whatever number of datasets you want to verify in this step, so the verification is only for the specific datasets you want.


If you chose NONE for Response Type in Step 1, this Step 3 will be skipped for obvious reasons.

Step 4. Summary

Here you will get the table with all the options you selected before. You can now start verification by pressing Start and you will go to the Displaying the results of the verification stage.

Displaying (and understanding) the results of the verification
You can stop verification at any time by pressing the button Stop.
At the right side of the interface, you will see the different validation snippets for each of the endpoints:


If the endpoint verified is correct, you will see the box for the snippet in green with a check.
If the endpoint verified is incorrect because a problem in the schema, you will see the box in orange with an exclamation mark in a triangle. You will be able to see the dataset (in case it doesn't belong to a NONE response), the response type and granularity for which the endpoint is failing. You will be able to drop down the expected schema and the received response.
If the endpoint verified is incorrect due to a server error that couldn't deliver a 200 response, you will se the box in red with a cross.

Downloading results
When validation finishes, because of it being stopped manually or because it fully reach completion, you will be able to download a .txt file with all the snippets collected, by clicking the Download Report button next to the Results Summary table.


The Results Summary table will give you the number for each type of resulting verification case of the endpoints.


